PETE LEPAGE:
Progressive Web Apps
are now supported on Windows.
The Credential Management
API adds support
for Public Key Credentials.
And you can now name Workers.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 70.
Users can now install
Desktop Progressive Web
Apps on Windows.
Once installed, they're
launched from the Start menu
and run like all
other installed apps
without an address bar or tabs.
Service workers ensure that
they're fast and reliable.
The app window experience
makes them feel
like any other installed app.
Getting started isn't
any different than what
you're already doing today.
All of the work
that you've already
done for your existing
Progressive Web App
still applies.
If your app meets the
standard PWA criteria,
Chrome will fire the
beforeinstallprompt event.
Save the event.
Then add some UI, like
an install app button,
to your app to tell the user
that your app can be installed.
Then, when the user
clicks the button,
call prompt on the saved event.
Chrome will then show
the prompt to the user.
If they click Add, Chrome will
add your PWA to their start
menu and desktop.
We're currently working
on Mac and Linux support.
So check out my post
on desktop PWAs link
in the description
for complete details.
The Credential
Management API makes sign
in super simple for users.
It allows your site to interact
with the browser's Credential
Manager or Federated
Account Services,
like Google or
Facebook, to sign in.
Chrome 70 adds a third
type of credential,
Public Key Credential,
which allows
web apps to create
and use strong,
cryptographically attested, and
application scoped credentials
to strongly authenticate users.
I'm pretty excited
about it, because it
allows sites to
use my fingerprint
for two-factor authentication.
But it also adds support for
additional types of security
keys and better
security on the web.
Check out the web
auth docs linked
in the description for more
details on how you can get
started.
Workers are an easy way to move
JavaScript off the main thread
and into the background.
This is critical to keeping
your site interactive,
because it means that the
main thread won't lock up
when it's running expensive
or complex JavaScript
computations.
In Chrome 70, Workers now
have a name attribute,
which is specified by
an optional argument
on the constructor.
This lets you distinguish
dedicated Workers
by name when you have multiple
workers with the same URL.
You can also print the name
in the DevTools console
making it much easier to know
which Worker you're debugging.
Naming Workers is already
available in Firefox, Edge,
and Safari.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 70
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Web Bluetooth is now
available in Windows 10
and allows your site to
communicate with nearby user
selected Bluetooth devices in
a secure and privacy-preserving
way.
Chrome can now send intervention
and deprecation messages
to your servers using the
report to HTTP response header,
or service them in the
reporting observer interface.
And there are a number
of important deprecations
that you should know about.
Check the deprecations
post for more details.
All the details,
including docs and specs,
are in the updates post
linked from the description.
Be sure to check out the latest
new in Chrome DevTools video
to learn what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe
button, and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 71 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.